# File Permissions, Users, and Groups

Making and overseeing various users and groups is an essential skill for any Linux administrator. Managing multiple accounts can be a difficult task. You may be required to give read, write, or execute privileges to certain files for some accounts, multiple accounts, or no accounts at all.

## Step-by-Step Guide:

1. **Log in as the root user.**
   - `su -`

2. **Open up a terminal and change directories to /etc.**
   - `cd /etc`

3. **Inside the etc directory is a file called passwd which holds information about all of the user accounts on your system.**
   - **Display the contents of the passwd file.**
   - `cat passwd`

4. **The first field of each line is a user account on the system.**
   - **Some of these are accounts for services that are running while others are for accounts for specific users.**
   - **Use awk to only display a list of the user accounts.**
   - `awk -F':' '{print $1}' passwd`

5. **For our purpose we want to create three new user accounts: test1, test2, and test3.**
   - **Create these users.**
   - `useradd test1`
   - `useradd test2`
   - `useradd test3`

6. **Verify that the three users have been created by displaying the contents of the passwd file.**
   - `cat passwd`
   - **Again use awk to only display a list of user accounts. This time redirect the output into a text file which will be stored on the root user’s Desktop.**
   - `awk -F':' '{print $1}' passwd > ~/Desktop/user_accounts.txt`

7. **Inside the etc directory is a file called group which holds information about all of the groups on your system.**
   - **Display the contents of the group file.**
   - `cat group`

8. **Create a new group called test_group.**
   - `groupadd test_group`

9. **Add user test1 and test2 to the test_group group.**
   - `usermod -aG test_group test1`
   - `usermod -aG test_group test2`

10. **Display the contents of the group file to verify the results.**
    - `cat group`
    - **Display the contents of the group file and redirect the output into a text file which will be stored on the root user’s Desktop.**
    - `cat group > ~/Desktop/group_info.txt`

11. **Change directories to the user test1’s home directory.**
    - `cd /home/test1`

12. **Change users to become user test1.**
    - `su - test1`

13. **Create a file called file1 and populate it with some text.**
    - `echo "Some text for file1" > file1`
    - **Set the permissions to rw for owner, r for group, and no permissions for all other users.**
    - `chmod 640 file1`

14. **Create a file called file2 and populate it with some text.**
    - `echo "Some text for file2" > file2`
    - **Set the permissions to rw for owner and group, and r for all other users.**
    - `chmod 664 file2`

15. **Create a file called file3 and populate it with some text.**
    - `echo "Some text for file3" > file3`
    - **Set the permissions to rw for all users.**
    - `chmod 666 file3`

16. **Create a file called file4 and populate it with some text.**
    - `echo "Some text for file4" > file4`
    - **Set the permissions to rw for the owner and no permissions for any other user.**
    - `chmod 600 file4`

17. **Change back to the root user.**
    - `exit`

18. **For each of the created files, change the group to the test_group group previously created.**
    - `chgrp test_group /home/test1/file1 /home/test1/file2 /home/test1/file3 /home/test1/file4`

19. **For the last created file, file4, change the owner to the test3 user.**
    - `chown test3 /home/test1/file4`

20. **Read and write each file as user test1. Do you get the expected results?**
    - `su - test1`
    - `cat /home/test1/file1` and attempt to edit it.
    - `cat /home/test1/file2` and attempt to edit it.
    - `cat /home/test1/file3` and attempt to edit it.
    - `cat /home/test1/file4` and attempt to edit it.

21. **Read and write each file as user test2. Do you get the expected results?**
    - `su - test2`
    - `cat /home/test1/file1` and attempt to edit it.
    - `cat /home/test1/file2` and attempt to edit it.
    - `cat /home/test1/file3` and attempt to edit it.
    - `cat /home/test1/file4` and attempt to edit it.

22. **Read and write each file as user test3. Do you get the expected results?**
    - `su - test3`
    - `cat /home/test1/file1` and attempt to edit it.
    - `cat /home/test1/file2` and attempt to edit it.
    - `cat /home/test1/file3` and attempt to edit it.
    - `cat /home/test1/file4` and attempt to edit it.

23. **Remove all files.**
    - `rm /home/test1/file1 /home/test1/file2 /home/test1/file3 /home/test1/file4`

24. **Remove the test_group group.**
    - `groupdel test_group`

25. **Remove the users test1, test2, and test3.**
    - `userdel -r test1`
    - `userdel -r test2`
    - `userdel -r test3`

By following these steps, you will practice creating and managing user accounts and groups, setting file permissions, and understanding the implications of these permissions in a Linux environment.