# Bash Scripting

Writing Bash scripts is a powerful way to interact with our Linux system. Bash scripts can be used any time you have a repeated set of commands that you use on a regular basis. In this example, we are going to write a bash script that will encrypt or decrypt a given file for us using the gpg command.

## Step-by-Step Guide:

1. **Open up a terminal and navigate to your Scripts directory that we created in our previous videos.**
   - `cd ~/Scripts`

2. **Create a new file called ed (for encrypt/decrypt).**
   - `touch ed`

3. **Open this file to make edits.**
   - `nano ed` (or your preferred text editor)

4. **Indicate what interpreter should be used for this script (we want to use bash).**
   ```bash
   #!/bin/bash
   ```

5. **Put a comment describing the use of the script.**
   ```bash
   # This script will encrypt or decrypt a given file using gpg.
   ```

6. **Display a welcome message to the screen stating that the program will encrypt or decrypt a given file.**
   ```bash
   echo "Welcome! This program will encrypt or decrypt a given file."
   ```

7. **Prompt the user to enter a filename to work with.**
   ```bash
   echo "Please enter the filename:"
   read filename
   ```

8. **Set a variable filepath which is the absolute path of the given filename. This will be important such that we can still run the script correctly if we are not in the same folder as the script.**
   ```bash
   filepath=$(realpath "$filename")
   ```

9. **Prompt the user to enter if they would like to encrypt or decrypt a file.**
   ```bash
   echo "Would you like to encrypt or decrypt the file? (enter 'encrypt' or 'decrypt')"
   read choice
   echo ""
   ```

10. **If the given file is a regular file and exists:**
    ```bash
    if [ -f "$filepath" ]; then
        if [ "$choice" == "encrypt" ]; then
            gpg --symmetric --no-symkey-cache "$filepath"
            echo "The file has been encrypted."
            rm "$filepath"
        elif [ "$choice" == "decrypt" ]; then
            gpg --decrypt "$filepath.gpg"
        else
            echo "The choice '$choice' is not a valid option."
        fi
    else
        echo "The file is not a regular file."
        for file in *; do
            if [ -f "$file" ]; then
                echo "The file '$file' could be used with this script."
            fi
        done
    fi
    echo ""
    echo "Current encrypted files in the directory:"
    ls *.gpg
    ```

11. **Close the file and save all changes.**

12. **Set the permissions of ed such that it can be executed.**
    - `chmod +x ed`

13. **Create 3 text files and populate each of them with text: file1, file2, and file3**
    ```bash
    echo "This is file1" > file1
    echo "This is file2" > file2
    echo "This is file3" > file3
    ```

14. **Create 2 directories: test1 and test2**
    - `mkdir test1 test2`

15. **Run your script to encrypt the directory test1.**
    - `./ed` (Enter `test1` as the filename and `encrypt` as the choice)

16. **Run your script to encrypt the file file1.**
    - `./ed` (Enter `file1` as the filename and `encrypt` as the choice)

17. **Try to view the contents of file1.**
    - `cat file1` (You should get an error message since the file is encrypted)

18. **Run your script to decrypt file1.**
    - `./ed` (Enter `file1.gpg` as the filename and `decrypt` as the choice)

19. **Verify the original contents.**
    - `cat file1`

20. **If the script is working, move the script to /usr/local/bin and run the script in any directory to verify that it is still working.**
    - `sudo mv ed /usr/local/bin`
    - `cd /some/other/directory`
    - `ed`

21. **Remove the files created for this video: file1, file2, file3, test1, and test2.**
    ```bash
    rm file1 file2 file3
    rmdir test1 test2
    ```

By following these steps, you will practice writing and executing Bash scripts, using gpg for file encryption and decryption, and managing file permissions and file system paths in a Linux environment.